## Archery and Coding: The Story of my chrysalis into a Coder and the spiritualism of being an Archer.

>"Success is the result, not the goal."
> Leon Jukelis.

I spent my childhood scared, alone, away from the world, I was scared of going out of my own home because of bullies and the harshness of the people who inhabit our planet. Old VHS films and books were my friends, James Bond my hero in the darkness.  Despite all this I always had a natural curiosity of the world and how things worked, rather than watch children's show's I watched documentaries and read history. In my readings I learned about the most prominent and powerful weapon in history, The Bow and Arrow. Though I read about the many battles this weapon was in,I never understood its power. Not until one day, during my 201 class at Code Fellows did I buy an old longbow and found an indoor Archery range that specialized in recurves and older style bows. The Owner told me that it would literally explode from the tension of the pull if I tried to use it. But while I was there in the empty range (this was in the middle of COVID-19) did I feel that childhood urge to understand things once again, my mind was no longer afraid of learning for that moment. 

So I paid for the rental and got the basics of how to use a bow, my first show barely hit the outer edge of my target. But in that moment, my mind was clear, I could feel my body beginning to become part of the bow with the common goal of releasing to arrow. I didn't feel embarassed for not hitting the bullseye, I felt thousands of years of history and development in my soul. And so on my first day I was lobbing arrows for 6 hours with unfound energy. Each Arrow that flew from my hands was the result of consistency and unity between my mind and body. It was at that moment I saw the parallels of Coding and Archery. You need Confidence, free concious, steadiness, and a clear mind to be a good Archer and a good Coder. 

For the uninitiated in archery, hitting the bullseye is the bee's knees. An experianced Archer however, cares that his arrows are continously hitting the same area...not the bullseye. This means being able to repeat the same movements to create the same result every time. A coder is the same, we must be able to persevere writing code, doing the same thing everyday expecting good results. It's a mental game, neither are competative, but when you bring that mindset in, you gain tunnel vision, your focus is lost. *you* have lost. 

Archers and Coders are analytical by nature, and while it's a strength, it's also our greatest enemy. But the satisfaction of that good group, the satisfaction of bringing out a product we are proud of. makes the strain worth it to us. I always second guessed myself, often making the right descision the first time then making a correction because of doubt only to realize after the fact. I saw this one day when I was showing one arrow for one target 6 times. 2 didn't get close to center because of my second guessing but when I stayed commited to my initial decision and aim, I was hitting a lot closer to the bullseye than before. This gave me more confidence as a person, I began to doubt myself less and less, letting my mind and body agree for once instead of always fighting. and in turn made me more confident in my code and my desire to be in the industry. Before I didn't know what I could offer the tech industry, but thanks to my time as an archer I now know, I am offering myself, my experiances, and my ambitions into the next stage of human development. I always wanted to be more than I was, and with the tech industry I feel I can evolve into the person I always wanted to be, not because I want to...but because I can.

The harsh truth is we can be stranded on an island watching the world continue without us, nothing we say or do can stop that. But how we live in that world, whether surviving till we die or living at our best is our choice. That, is what being an Archer and a Coder has taught me and I hope to you as well.