## DB Normalization

*Code 301: Class 14*

DataBase Normalization is the process of separating one large database query into multiple branches that serve an individual purpose in order to avoid duplication of data, easier DB modification and updating, higher performance speeds, and honestly easier readability. The example used had the primary key be the employee id with things like  employee name, location, phone number, and customer. Now, on a small scale of say 14 employees that ain't so bad but if you're in a company of even 1,000 thats where Db normalization is a juicy pickle. Cause now instead of having to update the data for jerry at the kent branch being transferred to the auburn branch in which case you're doing a name transfer and all his info has to be moved around. normalization is being able to take you primery data and have each subcatagory moved without having to make multiple queries in the one database to do so. or worse, say your site get visited a million times a day and all of those people have accounts and favorites and stuffs, that is constantly being updated in your server and if you're duplicating the same info then your server performance will plummet and your clientele will leave faster than a bunch of starving hunting dogs chasing an injured rabbit.

So do yourself a favor and normalize your database, it'll save you a headache...or 20.

If you liked this then follow [My GitHub](https://github.com/John-Ram) where more of these posts will uploaded throughout my time at Codefellows.

[Back to Main Page](https://john-ram.github.io/reading-notes.md/)