## The Call Stack and Debugging

*Code 301: Class 10*

>"If it ain't broke don't fix it."

One of the most important skills a coder can have is the ability to debug the errors in their programming and the code of others. Sometimes the simplest thing like capitalizing the 'D' in your DontCapitalizeYourFirstLetter function but not doing so when you call it can raise the red flag saying it's undefined. To more complex issues where your array passes your objects but returns a null value so know you have to put on the ole thinkin cap. Luckily you have plenty of magnifying glass Sherlock under the guise of you developers tools, the debugger function, and sometimes even the Call Stack. 

Javascript is a language where most of your errors won't be evident until you run your code and see the error in the developer's tools. Sometimes you might get lucky and Eslint will give you a red squigly line before pushing your code. But the developer's tools is great because it will tell you the type of error, the file its from, and the line of code its on. The debugger function can be added to your line and acts like a video player showing your code in slow motion, running everything up to where you invoked it in your tools. This is helpful as you can see everything run and what gets pushed. if everything runs the way it should, then you at least cleared a portion of your code and narrowed down your culprit.

The Call Stack is a little different, it's ment to keep order of the functions called and calls them in order, it is a single stack but is also useful to see if there's a function that tries to skip the line or gets called when it's not supposed to. This helps keep everything running smoothly and when an error pops in you console it show you the order in which it failed.

If you liked this then follow [My GitHub](https://github.com/John-Ram) where more of these posts will uploaded throughout my time at Codefellows.

[Back to Main Page](https://john-ram.github.io/reading-notes.md/)
