## Diversity and Inclusion

*COde 301: Class 15*

>'If we were all the same things would get pretty boring.'

Every person is unique, different backgrounds, different lifestyles, different personalities. In an industry where the things we create influence people of every creed, gender, race, and language it becomes imperative that the teams making these apps be as diverse as their clients. If a team of non-colorblinded people make an nice beautiful app but the color mixtures hurt the user's eyes its not very usable, having a person whose color-blind would help with this. Or what if you're a trekie and you want to be able to make calls from any device in your home but you didn't realize that the female users are afraid that stalkers might use this as a way to stay in touch with their target of "affection". See, even if you want to make a piece of software with the best of intentions, not having a diverse group of people working on your project can not only affect your image on the market but also your profits. 

In coding you are able to take different approaches towards the same goal as well as create different solutions towards a problem that a team with similar backgrounds wouldn't see a first glance. This is why disversity matters so much in tech development because being able have multiple viewpoints from different sources allows for the best results.

If you liked this then follow [My GitHub](https://github.com/John-Ram) where more of these posts will uploaded throughout my time at Codefellows.

[Back to Main Page](https://john-ram.github.io/reading-notes.md/)