## Inheritance and Interfaces

*Code 401-Java: Class 6*

>"A horse in a stable isn't afraid, it's just ready to run."
>Johnny Rico (Starship Troopers)

Genetics when it comes to horse breeding is important for the breeders. Some horses are bred for racing, dancing, or hauling. So what do horse genetics have to do with today's subject? Well just like genetics Java has inheritences when a new subclass or child class inherits the fields and methods of a superclass or parent class. This is inheriting code that has been debugged and processed to whatever you need in your subclass without re-writing the methods and debugging all over again. So you can give birth to another horse without having to re-create what a horse is from scratch. In Java all classes except *object* have a superclass and as you branch out making more and more subclasses for the increasing complexity of your code, knowing that your parent code that all your subsequent code is based on is a strong foundation can be a huge relief down the line.

Now what about interfaces? Well to put it simply, the keyboard i'm typing on *is* a type of interface. An Interface is Java's execution of a code-block. you type out the what a car should do when you turn the key, to turn the lights on when the switch is flipped, type a letter when you press a button on your keyboard. in simplist terms, that's an interface. With an API, interfaces are how you use the data stored in it, as exampled in the lesson, one company will make an API for public use, but while the use of the API is public, how it runs or how it stores is very private. In this case the interface is the only way to use the API.


If you liked this then follow [My GitHub](https://github.com/John-Ram) where more of these posts will uploaded throughout my time at Codefellows.

[Back to Main Page](https://john-ram.github.io/reading-notes.md/)