## Java Basics

*Code 401-Java: Class 1*

>'Starting to learn programming by starting with Java is like learning to ride a bike at two years old, without training wheels, the tires are flat, and the bike is one fire.'
>Boris-Life of Boris Youtube Channel

Holy crap I didn't realize how true this statement was! Now when i was new at coding i also asked the question "whats the difference between javascript and full-stack Java?" well as a classmate mentioned with a donk meme, the difference is like Car and Carpet, can't spell Javascript without Java. The biggest difference between the two is that Java is a compiled language while Javascript is an interpretive language. What does this mean? Javascript will automatically translate the code to machine language that the software will understand. While Java requires a compiler for the same translation but has a wider variety of uses along with more sensitivity with memory allocation. Personally like the extra prep required to write the programs as that make me think more critically about the process vs with Javascript all the memory is pre-allocated and while you can improve the performance of the program there isn't much you can actually do.

Another key difference is with Java you have an API *just* for the various functions to help you write your programs which you import. the nice thing is if you write a variable to print "it's alive!" your IDE will let you know you need to import the files needed to run the print function. 

in a very basic nutshell that is java, you have a lot more control over the program and its performace but can look a bit more intimidating. but if you can learn this everything else should be easy by comparison.

If you liked this then follow [My GitHub](https://github.com/John-Ram) where more of these posts will uploaded throughout my time at Codefellows.

[Back to Main Page](https://john-ram.github.io/reading-notes.md/)