## Object Oriented Programming

*Code 401-Java: Class 4*

Object Oriented Programming or OOPs in my case is the law of creation in the Full-stack Java language. in the reading you are asked to look left, look right, now look up and down and realize you were commanded to follow the methods of text provided to you. OOPs is brining something to life, you have a harley davidson or a crotch-rocket, you have a class of motorcycle. now you program the brakes, the engine output, gear ratio ETC. each one with a connected dynamic or static method depening on the parameters you set it.

one of the things that help you when writing methods for these especially with the parameters above is understanding how numbers work in the language, you got your decimals that work the same in the physical word but more relevant as companies will get competitive shaving that tenth of a second off their data streaming process, also you know how people says programming is just a bunch of 1's and 0's to your computer? yea it's called binary and while its such a vital language on its own is about as commonly known as people who speak latin. theres hexidecimal which after 9 uses A-F or 10 to 15 then adds a new digit in front of the letter like 11 in hexidecimal means 17 or 1F means 26. but these are important in software in their own way, and as we progress in our journey through CodeFellows you will hear about it's contributions to code and software here radio blog, the blog with no radio!

But If you liked this then follow [My GitHub](https://github.com/John-Ram) where more of these posts will uploaded throughout my time at Codefellows.

[Back to Main Page](https://john-ram.github.io/reading-notes.md/)